Blog post: GitHub enhanced stacktraces (#6857)
highlight/highlight: blog-content/github-enhanced-stacktraces.md

---
title: 'Building GitHub Enhanced Stacktraces'
createdAt: 2023-10-13T00:25:04.236Z
readingTime: 5
authorFirstName: Spencer
authorLastName: Amarantides
authorTitle: Software Engineer @ Highlight
authorTwitter: 'https://twitter.com/SpennyNDaJets'
authorLinkedIn: 'https://www.linkedin.com/in/spencer-amarantides/'
authorGithub: 'https://github.com/SpennyNDaJets'
authorWebsite: ''
authorPFP: 'https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a/AAcHTteOYM6knTAD-uOPM1JP56Yn4WlsGya6Dpnhq_ak6UJUY3Q=s576-c-no'
tags: Developer Tooling, Launch Week 3
metaTitle: Enhance your backend errors with code directly from GitHub
---

Do you enjoy seeing the code responsible for causing an error on your frontend stack traces? Do you wish you could see the same context
on your backend stack traces? Now you can with GitHub enhanced stacktraces!

> Frontend errors are able to enhance the stack trace with your sourcemaps. Most backed languages are compiled, causing us to miss out

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Frontend errors are able to enhance the stack trace with your sourcemaps. Most backend languages are compiled, causing us to miss out
```

> on those direct code mappings. As a result, the stack traces of you backend errors appear empty and lack the context to debug an error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on those direct code mappings. As a result, the stack traces of your backend errors appear empty and lack the context to debug an error
```

> from the Highlight app. Until now! Highlight developed a solution to provide you with the extra context on your backend errors, so you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from the Highlight app. Until now! We've developed a solution to provide you with the extra context on your backend errors, so you
```

can triage, debug, and solve more efficiently.

![GitHub enhancement](/images/blog/github-enhanced-stacktraces/enhancement.png)

## How it works

> Highlight's backend error enhancement relies on GitHub. With your permission, we use the the GitHub repo linked to your service, to fetch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Highlight's backend error enhancement relies on GitHub. With your permission, we use the the GitHub repo linked to your service to fetch
```

> the correct file from GitHub. Then using the line number of the stack trace, we can rebuild the lost context of each file in the trace of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the correct file from GitHub. Then, using the line number of the stack trace, we can rebuild the lost context of each file in the trace of
```

the error.

> It's simple right? Yes, but it does require some configuration on your side. In most build processes, the file names in the stack trace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's simple, but it does require some configuration on your side. In most build processes, the file names in the stack trace
```

> cannot be fetched directly from GitHub. Files tend to be copied from directories, and moved into other directories from deployment. In

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cannot be fetched directly from GitHub. Files tend to be copied from directories and moved into other directories from deployment. In
```

order to successfully enhance the file, Highlight needs to know what these paths are. We try to make this easy by allowing you to test
your configuration directly on an error, providing you with immediate feedback (See below). Once you are successful, just save and

> forget about it. Your errors will start being enhanced!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
forget about it. Future errors will be enhanced!
```

![GitHub configuration settings](/images/blog/github-enhanced-stacktraces/configuration-form.png)

For more detailed instructions to getting started, see [Enhancing Errors with GitHub](../docs-content/general/6_product-features/2_error-monitoring/enhancing-errors-with-github.md)

## Diving deeper

Your repo is rate limited by GitHub, so we tried to minimize the amount of requests with a few strategies. First, any files we fetch from

> GitHub we "cache" in AWS S3, to avoid needing to refetch the same file multiple times. This is cached with a Git Sha commit hash, so if your requested

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub are "cached" in AWS S3, to avoid needing to refetch the same file multiple times. This is cached with a Git Sha commit hash, so if your requested
```

Git Sha changes, the file will be refetched, insuring the latest changes are displayed.

Which Git Sha does Highlight use? That depends. Ideally, the Git Sha will be provided to the Highlight SDK, using the `serviceVersion` field.

> If you provide this field, you can ensure that you are looking at the correct code ran at the time of the error. However, this is not a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you provide this field, you can ensure that you are looking at the correct code that was running at the time of the error. However, this is not a
```

blocker to using the enhancement feature. If no version is provided to the SDK, Highlight will fetch the latest Git Sha commit hash from
your default branch. The hash is cached for a day, so there is a small chance you may be viewing a stale version, but it will correct itself
over time.

> Lastly, this is only the start to enhancing errors with GitHub. Already we can add context to compiled languages and link directly to the file in GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, this is only the start to enhancing errors with GitHub. We can already add context to compiled languages and link directly to the file in GitHub.
```

> We are looking to surpass what we can enhance with sourcemap, and start using these enhancments on all errors in your application. GitHub can allow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are looking to surpass what we can enhance with source maps and start using these enhancements on all of the errors in your application. GitHub allows
```

> you to see the history of a file, git blames (sorry in advanced to my fellow Highlight devs), and be able to link the start of an error to a specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
us to see file history, use git blames (sorry in advanced to my fellow Highlight devs), and link the start of an error to a specific
```
